Jv rox 25727 show external entity ip information in the network graph (#84248)
openshift/openshift-docs: operating/visualizing-external-entities.adoc

**`ROX_EXTERNAL_IPS`** enables storing external IP information in Central

With operator:

Insert the following customization in your Central CRD instance:

----
spec:
  customize:
    envVars:
      - name: ROX_EXTERNAL_IPS
        value: 'true'
----

With helm charts:

Update your installation with an overlay as follows:

----
customize:
  # Extra environment variables for all containers in all objects.
  envVars:
    ROX_EXTERNAL_IPS: “true”
----

**`ROX_NETWORK_GRAPH_EXTERNAL_IPS`** enables visualizing IPs in Network Graph.

With operator:

Insert the following customization in your Central CRD instance:

----
spec:
  customize:
    envVars:
      - name: ROX_NETWORK_GRAPH_EXTERNAL_IPS
        value: 'true'
----

With helm charts:

Update your installation with an overlay as follows:

----
customize:
  # Extra environment variables for all containers in all objects.
  envVars:
    ROX_NETWORK_GRAPH_EXTERNAL_IPS: “true”
----

=== Querying External IP via API

==== API endpoints

Two API endpoints are provided for external IPs. The first is

/v1/networkgraph/cluster/{clusterId}/externalentities

> Given a cluster ID, returns the list of external entities. Each entity consists of a name, CIDR block, if the entity is considered to be a default entity, and if the entity was discovered. In this context discovered means that the external IP address doesnot match any user specified CIDR block. In this context default means that the external IP address matches one of the system specified CIDR blocks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given a cluster ID, returns the list of external entities. Each entity consists of a name, CIDR block, if the entity is considered to be a default entity, and if the entity was discovered. In this context "discovered" means that the external IP address does not match any specified CIDR block. In this context, “default” means that the entity is a CIDR-block definition provided by the system (Auto-discovered CIDR block). Entities which are neither “default” or “discovered” are CIDR-blocks defined by the user.
```

The second API endpoint reports the flows to and from external entities, given a cluster ID and deployment ID.

/v1/networkgraph/cluster/{clusterId}/externalentities/flows/{deploymentId}

These API endpoints are described in the API reference in the product UI.

=== Visualizing External IP via Network Graph

Currently the IPs appear in the network graph main area.

=== Known limitations: 
* When External-IPs are enabled for a cluster, the Collectors in this cluster will start reporting more information to Sensor, and to Central. There could be scalability issues if the workload in the cluster is communicating with a great variety of external peers.

> Enabling this feature is not recommended on clusters with a communication pattern involving more than 10,000 distinct external entities.

Author: Combine with above bullet point.

Author: Done

> Enabling this feature is not recommended on clusters with a communication pattern involving more than 10,000 distinct external entities.

Author: Combine with above bullet point.

Author: Done

In a nutshell:
[cols="1,4,1,1", options="header"]
|===
|
|Prerequisites
|External IP API
|External IP in Network Graph

|Secured cluster
|Enable external IPs collection per secured cluster runtime configuration
|Yes
|Yes

.2+|Central services
|Enable external IPs storage in Central via env variable: ROX_EXTERNAL_IPS
|Yes
|Yes

|Enable external IPs in Network Grah via env_variable ROX_NETWORK_GRAPH_EXTERNAL_IPS
|No
|Yes
|===

* Enable external IPs collection per secured cluster runtime configuration: Each cluster can be individually configured to turn on collection of external IPs. To enable this feature on a given cluster, use “Collector Runtime configuration” (which is available from 4.6 on Tech. Preview) 

=== Configure secured cluster:
Refer to the <<Runtime Configuration>>

runtime_config.yaml -> networking -> externalIps -> enable : true

Note: It is supported to have clusters with the functionality enabled and others disabled at the same time. In this case, IP information will be available only for enabled clusters.

=== Configure central: 

* Enable external IPs in Central:  This is done using two environmental variables which are disabled by default: 

>   +

Reviewer 2: You don't need the `+`

Author: Removed it

> - ROX_EXTERNAL_IPS enables storing external IP information in Central

Reviewer 2: In asciidoc, `-` is the same as `*` and will just be a bullet item. You need `**` to make a sub-bullet. The bullet/sub-bullet formatting is controlled by the conversion to HTML from asciidoc so you can't make some bullets appear as round bullets and some appear as dashes.

Author: I have decided to remove the hyphen.

With operator:

> 	Insert the following customization in your Central CRD instance:

Reviewer 2: The spaces here are making this be set off into a box - delete the spaces in front of "Insert".

I'm actually not sure what you are trying to do here, but here is a pointer to how to format a series of steps for a procedure:

https://raw.githubusercontent.com/redhat-documentation/modular-docs/master/modular-docs-manual/files/TEMPLATE_PROCEDURE_doing-one-procedure.adoc

Reviewer 2: So you would have something like:

```
. Enable external IPs by configuring the following environmental variables:
* ROX_EXTERNAL_IPS: Enables storing external IP information in Central. Depending on your installation method of Operator or Helm chart, do one of the following tasks:
** Insert the following into your CRD:
(example)
** Update your installation with an overlay as shown in the following example:
(example)
* ROX_NETWORK_GRAPH_EXTERNAL_IPS: Enables visualizing IPs in the network graph. Depending on your installation method of Operator or Helm chart, do one of the following tasks:
** Insert the following into your CRD:
(example)
** Update your installation with an overlay as shown in the following example:
(example)
```

Reviewer 2: This might be helpful too:

https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/lists/unordered/

https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/lists/ordered/

Author: Thanks. I have removed the spaces before insert.

:_mod-docs-content-type: ASSEMBLY
[id="visualizing-external-entities"]
= Visualizing external entities
include::modules/common-attributes.adoc[]
:context: visualizing-external-entities

toc::[]

:FeatureName: Visualizing external entities
include::snippets/technology-preview.adoc[]
:!FeatureName:

[role="_abstract"]

> Understanding your cluster's and external entities' interactions is essential for incident response and network policy management. With the Visualizing external entities feature, you can view the external IP addresses that interact with your cluster.

Author: ```suggestion
Understanding the interactions between your cluster and external entities is essential for incident response and network policy management. With the Visualizing external entities feature, you can view the external IP addresses that interact with your cluster.
```

> Understanding your cluster's and external entities' interactions is essential for incident response and network policy management. With the Visualizing external entities feature, you can view the external IP addresses that interact with your cluster.

Author: You make a good point, but there is a mistake in your suggestion. I have fixed `your the interactions` in my own suggestion.

You can view external entities in the Network Graph or query external entities by using the API.

[NOTE]
====

> Visualizing external entities is an opt-in feature that is disabled by default. To enable this feature, you must enable external IP collection in Central and secured clusters.

Reviewer 3: Is this right?

```suggestion
Visualizing external entities is an opt-in feature that is disabled by default. To enable this feature, you must enable external IP collection in Central and secured clusters, as described in the following sections.
```

Author: Yes
